hello this is Mike Coffman with enviro
guard and guarding our earth comm and
this is the second installment in a
series regarding increasing your cool
season grass hay production and
hopefully you'll find this to be some
interesting information and hopefully
you'll also hop over to the blog by
clicking the link below this video for
some additional tips in regards to this
particular issue as well as other
articles related to gardening and
farming and growing and fertilization
issues so thank you very much for
watching and I hope that you find this
to be a useful video now in this
particular video again i'm i've only got
one topic that i want to cover in the
video itself so that it doesn't become
too long but hey growers and livestock
owners often spend a great deal of time
and effort working out the details of
their fertilization and herbicide
applications in order to maximize their
yields but often they are unaware of
some very simple steps that can be taken
to address such issues and knowing these
techniques and how they can benefit you
can be a very good first step toward
decreasing costs and increasing profits
from your farm or your ranch now in this
video i want to talk about a better
alternative to applying herbicides for
controlling weeds and that's not to say
that you shouldn't ever apply herbicides
or that you can't ever apply herbicides
you know personally i would i would try
and steer clear of that as much as
possible but I know there are situations
where it might end up being required at
least in the short term but quite
frankly another way to save money at
least in the long run growing hay is to
consider over seeding as an alternative
weed control method to applying
herbicides the thicker the grass stand
is the better your grass stand will be
able to shade those weed seeds and crowd
out what little weed growth you may get
now of course you've got the expense of
the seed upfront which will be more
pricey than the herbicide that you might
have
but over the course of multiple seasons
your overall costs would potentially be
much less because you won't be spending
the money on repeated herbicide
applications nor the time and the fuel
to apply them and moreover over seeding
your plot will provide for a thicker
stand which will of course provide more
yield now increasing the density of your
stand will likely increase drying times
prior to bailing but otherwise it will
provide for considerably more yield for
the time spent harvesting it and time is
money let's face it it doesn't really
take you a whole lot more time to
harvest a field that provides more yield
versus the same size field that provides
less yield so if you could get more
yield out of the same amount of space
and with relatively the same amount of
time
you know covering that area and baling
up the hay obviously you know there's
there's going to be more profit there
and that's a significant benefit to you
so rather than continuing to apply
herbicides every single year to control
those weeds why not use a more
longer-term and more effective long term
approach which would be to simply over
seed the field and get it to fill in
better now of course there are other
ways to get that plot to fill in better
over seeding isn't the only one and
these other you know issues can be
helpful in that regard and some of those
are discussed in the blog article at the
link below so I hope you'll take a look
at that to not only increase your
overall yield and the thickness of your
pasture but also to control your weeds
and obviously ultimately increase your
profits so thank you very much I hope
that you have a wonderful week and I
hope that your farm becomes more
profitable as a result of watching this
video and reading my articles so I take
care and have a great day bye